# Common transformers for [RITE](../../README.md)
This plugin contains some common transformers. To use any of the transformers, 
include the plugin in the rite-XML:
```xml
<rite>
    <plugins>
        <!-- If the plugin is not in the LD_LIBRARY_PATH, provide a "path" attribute -->
        <plugin id="common-transformers" name="rite_common_transformers"/>
    </plugins>
</rite>
```
There is only one transformer in the plugin, so the name must be emtpy:
```xml
    <!-- ... -->
            <transformers>
                <transformer plugin="common-transformers">
                    <!-- Configuration goes here -->
                <transformer>
            <transformers>
    <!-- ... -->
```
The transformer applies multiple field modifieres to all fields of the given 
record. What modifiere will be applied is determined by a configuration variable,
that has the name of the modifiere and a modifier specific value.
```xml
    <!-- ... -->
            <transformers>
                <transformer plugin="common-transformers">
                    <configuration>
                        <config key="<modifier-name>" value="<modifier-parameter>" />
                    </configuration>
                <transformer>
            <transformers>
    <!-- ... -->
```
## Modifiers
Here is a list of currently supported modifiers and their configuration options.
### add_field
This modifier adds a new field to the record. The configuration value is a colon 
separated list. The first element is the name of the new field. The secod parameter
is the type of the new field. All fields are automatically calculated, there is no 
way to supply a user defined value.
#### Field types
* `uuid` - The new field will be a String representing a v4 uuid (generated by the crate [uuid](https://crates.io/crates/uuid))
* `autoinc` - The new field will be a integer value, which is automatically incremented,
beginning with 1. The type of the field is i32
#### Example
```xml
    <config key="add_field" value="id:uuid" />
    <config key="add_field" value="number:autoinc" />
```

### rename_field
This modifier renames an existing field. The configuration value is a colon 
separated list. The first element is the name of the existing field. The secod parameter
is the new name of the field.
#### Example
```xml
    <config key="rename_field" value="oldfieldname:newfieldname" />
```
### ignore_field
This modifier controls, which fields should be ignored in the resulting record.
When given, the fields in the list will not be included in the resulting record.
The configuration value is a comma separated list of field names.
#### Example
```xml
    <config key="ignore_field" value="field1,field2" />
```
In this case the fields with name `field1` or `field2` will **not** be part of the 
resulting record

### include_field
This modifier controls, which fields should be included in the resulting record.
When given, only fields in the list will be exported. The configuration value is 
a comma separated list of field names.
#### Example
```xml
    <config key="include_field" value="field1,field2" />
```
In this case only the field with name `field1` or `field2` will be part of the 
resulting record

